1. Scenario on Handling Multicollinearity: Imagine you are working with a dataset intended to predict housing prices based on features like size, location, age of the property, and proximity to amenities. During your analysis, you discover significant multicollinearity between the size of the house and its age. Describe the steps you would take to address this issue. Which specific techniques or metrics would you use to confirm and mitigate multicollinearity to ensure the stability and interpretability of your model?

Answer:

Since we already know that there is a correlation between size of the house and its age. We can do one of the following:

i. Drop one of the columns either size or age of the house if its not an important feature.

ii. Use regularization techniques to reduce multi-collinearity.

Ridge regression would penalize the coefficients to related features towards zero and reduce the impact of collinearity on the model.


2. Scenario on Model Evaluation Metrics: You have developed a multiple linear regression model to forecast quarterly sales based on advertising spend, seasonal effects, and economic conditions. The model has an R-squared of 0.85, but your client is concerned about the reliability of predictions. Discuss how you would use MSE and RMSE in this scenario to evaluate model performance further. Explain the implications of these metrics and how they might influence your recommendations for model adjustments or client expectations.

The R^2 score of 0.85 indicates that 85% of the input features can relate to the label. It shows to us that it is a good fit for the model.

However, relying solely on R^2 score might not be a good answer. We should look into MSE and RMSE as well to determine the errors.

MSE i.e Mean Squared Error and Root Mean Squared Error both give the overall accuracy and precision in prediction in terms of the model reliability.

MSE is the avaerage of all errors in prediction and RMSE is the square root of MSE.

The higher the MSE and RMSE score the underfit the model is, and lower the score the more fitting or overfit the model will be.

A good model is one that has a good R-squared score along with a low MSE and/or RMSE.

In our case here, we can use R-squared along with MSE to evaluate the model performance.


